# SMS 80/200

#### Tags
#Hall9 #ProcessEquipment #Exhibits

#### Description
The SMS models are machines for particularly demanding applications: the size reduction of heavy lumps, tough fibres, extremely thin films or simply very large amounts of material.

Granulators of the SMS series are also available as washing granulators. In this case contaminated plastics are granulated with the addition of large quantities of water. The resulting friction produces a good washing effect. Washing and shredding are combined into one operation.

Here we produce machines with a working width from 500 to 2000 millimetres and drive motors from 22 to 250 kilowatts.

The SMS is the preferred machine for recycling businesses, since with an equally high performance they can easily be converted from the granulation of high-volume hollow materials to the granulation of thick-walled panels or lumps.

If required, machines of the SMS series can be supplied with steel plating. The options range from basic replaceable wear plates in the top of the granulator and (depending on wear and tear) replaceable stator knife supports all the way to screwed, replaceable rotor knife support plates – and this is all done with wear-proof materials of appropriate hardness and toughness.

#### Advantages
- Heavy duty welded/machined steel construction
- Split housing design above the rotor for maximum access
- Outboard mounted pillow block bearings
- Rotor and bed knives are adjusted from outside of the granulator
- Constant cutting circle due to adjustable knives
- Compact and space-saving design

#### Key Features
- Heavy-duty knife granulator for tough applications and maximum outputs
- Flexible design for multiple applications by means of a removable deflection wedge
- Energy-efficient double cross cutting action
- Constant cutting circle due to adjustable rotor and bed knives
- Optimum access to the cutting chamber for ease of cleaning and maintenance

#### Related Equipment
Herbold granulators can be incorporated into any automated production line or process as we have a large number of options available as well as a design team to meet your needs. Options include but not limited to the following:

- Electronic metal separation and magnetic units for extraction of foreign metallic objects
- Air extractors and screening machines for separation of dust particles and specific light parts on the granulate
- Amperage overload cut-out for regulating the load and amount of feed articles during the loading of the machine
- Pneumatic and mechanical loading units for feeding the machine or for removal of the finished granulate
- Pre-crushing unit for reduction of heavy-duty materials and to regulate a continuous flow of material
- Pulverizers for fine particle size
- Storage silos before and after the granulator
- Conveyor belts and feed rolls for sheeting, edge trims and webbing

#### Related Topics
- Granulators & Shredders
- Herbold Meckesheim
- Plastic Waste Processing

#### Related Talks & Events
No Talks @ K 2025

#### Fun Fact / Goodie
With the overall ambient noise of operating plants on the rise sound insulation gains more and more importance. According to the application Herbold offers different sound insulation concepts: e. g. 2 piece sound insulation boxes, sound insulation cabins, sound insulation tunnels for conveyor feed applications, sound insulation for pneumatic conveyors. With the customers design requirement Herbold’s design team can provide a suitable solution to meet those needs. 

#### Resources
3D-Model: Dateipfad 
Video: Dateipfad
Image: [[SMS-80-200.jpg]]
Brochure: [[SMS-80-200.pdf]]

---